- [Instructor] Despite our best efforts to prevent it,
things can go wrong in production environments
that need to be fixed immediately.
In Gitflow, this situation is handled
using a hotfix branch.
So let's imagine that in our website,
we accidentally linked to the wrong course
and it needs to be fixed immediately.
Since we've already released these changes to production,
they'll be found in our main branch
because we're using Gitflow.
To perform the hotfix, we'll need to create a hotfix branch
off of our main branch.
So let's go ahead and we'll name our hotfix branch.
I'm going to call it hotfix/1.1,
and then before creating the branch,
you'll just want to double-check
that it's being branched off of main.
Looks like I'm good to go,
so I'll create the branch
and now we can start working on performing the fix.
To fix the issue, we'll need to replace the wrong course
with the right course.
So I'm going to head over to the LinkedIn Learning platform
and here, I'll find my Continuous Delivery
for Cloud Native Java Apps course.
Let's say this is the course
that we wanted to display on the page.
Let's go ahead and copy the markup
that will embed the video for the course on our webpage.
All right, once we have that markup copied,
we can navigate back to GitHub
and here, we can edit our index.md file.
So I'll go ahead and click on the file
and then we can click on the pencil to edit it.
Now, this would be performed normally
on your local workstation, but once again, to save time,
I'm doing it right within GitHub.
Inside of the file, we're going to replace our description
and the existing markup with the correct markup,
that way we can fix the bug.
All right, there, it's in place,
so let's go ahead and we can commit our changes
to this file.
Now that the fix is in our hotfix branch,
we can start to merge that change into our main branch,
that way it gets released.
To do that, we're going to create another pull request.
And you'll notice that GitHub has picked up
on our hotfix branch, so let's use this shortcut
to create the pull request.
I'll just go ahead, click on this button,
the pull request will get created,
and then we can merge the changes into our main branch,
which will cause them to be released.
Now while the release is being performed
by our GitHub action,
let's copy these changes into our develop branch,
that way, all of the branches are in sync.
So I'll go back to pull requests,
click on New pull request,
and then we'll select our develop branch,
and then we'll merge the hotfix branch into it.
Okay, that should set up our pull request,
so let's go ahead and we can create it,
and then I'll click on this button
to create the pull request
so that we can merge it into the develop branch.
Okay, now develop should be up-to-date with our hotfix.
Now let's go check out those changes
that we just made to the main branch.
They should be deployed by now.
There we can see our GitHub action
and if we view our website,
you'll see that we now have the correct course in place
and we were able to fix the bug.
So using a hotfix branch in the GItflow workflow
allowed us to address a critical issue.
The key is to remember to merge the hotfix branch
into main and develop once you've completed it.
So that wraps things up for Gitflow.
Now we're going to move on to our next workflow.